Add RFC to create a public part of the intranet (#44)
giantswarm/rfc: make-intranet-public/README.md

I will not specify which parts of the current intranet may be better suited for our product documentation,
that is a decision which can be made independently of this proposal.

## Proposed solution

We create a new public repository called `handbook`.
This repository uses the same general structure and hugo setup as our intranet.

We then import the content from the `handbook` repository into the `intranet` source - this should be easily possible as described [here](https://discourse.gohugo.io/t/building-content-from-multiple-repositories/34636).
Importing the `handbook` repository will mean that the search functionality in the `intranet` will automatically scrape both private and public docs.
Therefore the `intranet` can remain as the single source of truth for Giant Swarm employees to aggregate information.

The `handbook` repository itself should also be setup with `hugo` to host its content under `handbook.giantswarm.io` making it easily accessible for outside collaborators.

The complete setup would then look as follows:
- `handbook` only contains information we are comfortable with having public.

> - `intranet` only contains truly private information but imports all content from `handbook` into a unified search.

Reviewer: I'd make it even stronger:
1. default to handbook, everything that is not product docs goes in there
2. only things that are truly private (to be defined) go to intranet

Author: I don't follow - we need to import into the intranet because otherwise we don't have one search over both repos. I want to prevent a situation where we have a split brain documentation.

Reviewer: this is independent from the import, I agree that the import is a good idea at least for the current technical solution.

I want to make our guidelines more clear with a clear goal on defaulting to public and only keeping sensitive info private

Reviewer: I just saw you also mention the "public by default" policy further down, fine if you wanna stage it as you need to get unblocked

- `docs` contains product documentation which is directly linked on our website as before.

> 

Reviewer: I was kinda missing a step stating we move content from intranet to handbook

Author: I added some explanations of what I envision here. Not sure what others are thinking about it.

# Making parts of the intranet public

## Status quo

We currently have an internal `hugo` page which we use for internal documentation.
This page is called `intranet` and contains all kinds of documentation around our operational work as well as security and development.

> The sourcecode for our `intranet` is in a private github repository which contains other security and business relevant data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The source code for our `intranet` is in a private GitHub repository which contains other security and business relevant data.
```

Importing the `handbook` repository will mean that the search functionality in the `intranet` will automatically scrape both private and public docs.
Therefore the `intranet` can remain as the single source of truth for Giant Swarm employees to aggregate information.

The `handbook` repository itself should also be setup with `hugo` to host its content under `handbook.giantswarm.io` making it easily accessible for outside collaborators.

The complete setup would then look as follows:
- `handbook` only contains information we are comfortable with having public.
- `intranet` only contains truly private information but imports all content from `handbook` into a unified search.
- `docs` contains product documentation which is directly linked on our website as before.

### Transitioning content into the public handbook

Content will be transitioned into the public handbook on a "if-needed" basis for now.
We have some usecases which require our internal docs to be public (e.g. relevant docs to external collaborators, people related docs which help with hiring, ... ).

> Once the new concept is proven with the currently needed docs being public, then a `public by default` policy should be put in place.

Reviewer 3: I suggest to do the following:
- define clearly what success look like (so clearly explicit what you mean by "new concept is proven")
- clearly set the tentative roadmap (eliciting steps/milestones) and set expectations for the "public by default" and "content migration" part (i.e. once handbook is "successful" then these roles X are expected to implement these Y features within Z time in this order T)

Author: I agree but I don't think the RFC is the place to do this already. I would generally like agreement on the repo split proposal first :)

Reviewer 3: then write it in the rfc the steps that are left for further later elicitation rather than writing half-baked ideas no?

# Making parts of the intranet public

## Status quo

We currently have an internal `hugo` page which we use for internal documentation.
This page is called `intranet` and contains all kinds of documentation around our operational work as well as security and development.
The source code for our `intranet` is in a private GitHub repository which contains other security and business relevant data.

## Goal

The non-security relevant parts of the intranet should be public.
Making them public enables us to collaborate with other companies more easily.
It additionally allows us to enable outside contributors to work on projects more independently.

> 

Reviewer 4: I'd add that it will also work towards branding and especially employer branding.

that is a decision which can be made independently of this proposal.

## Proposed solution

We create a new public repository called `handbook`.
This repository uses the same general structure and hugo setup as our intranet.

A similar search setup to our docs should be setup which covers the `handbook` as well as the `intranet`.
That search will then be accessible through the `intranet`, linking to both sources of truth.
Therefore the `intranet` can remain as the single source of truth for Giant Swarm employees to aggregate information.
Most importantly, it becomes trivial to link URLs from either source as search results will forward you to the specific article.

The `handbook` repository itself should also be setup with `hugo` to host its content under `handbook.giantswarm.io` making it easily accessible for outside collaborators.

The complete setup would then look as follows:
- `handbook` only contains information we are comfortable with having public.
- `intranet` only contains truly private information but imports all content from `handbook` into a unified search.
- `docs` contains product documentation which is directly linked on our website as before.

> 

Author: Yes, this is something I want in the future to advertise it. Initially this is not a requirement.

### Transitioning content into the public handbook

Content will be transitioned into the public handbook on a "if-needed" basis for now.
We have some usecases which require our internal docs to be public (e.g. relevant docs to external collaborators, people related docs which help with hiring, ... ).

Once the new concept is proven with the currently needed docs being public, then a `public by default` policy should be put in place.

> This should then by followed by all non-critical docs being moved to the public repo in quick succession.

Reviewer 5: Should we decide a initial structure that will help ppl to move content?

Example

-> Operations
    -> Operation model
    -> Run books
    -> ...

-> Organization structure
    -> Chapters
    -> SIGs
    -> ...
    
-> ...
    
I think it will be useful if we put some effort into drawing an outline instead of leaving ppl to classify content freely

Reviewer 4: I like this idea.

> Docs should always be made public by the owners of the docs.

Reviewer 4: Which means we need to ensure Intranet docs ownership, similar to what we have on Docs at the moment.

Reviewer: IIRC we did give ownership of intranet to team team
